---
layout: page
title: "Decider"
category: comp
date: 2015-05-06 17:48:28
order: 100
---

The decider polls for decision tasks from the SWF Decision TaskList referenced by the command line (See SWF documentation). The decider decides "what's next" in your workflow. The workflow is define through a YAML plan (detailed below).

**Decisions tasks are SWF "events" like:**

   - WorkflowStarted
   - ActivityTaskFailed
   - ActivityTaskTerminated
   - WorkflowTerminated
   - etc

**Based on those decision tasks, the Decider will:**

   - Start a new activity task
   - Cancel a workflow
   - etc

### Overview

The decider's code is in Python not in PHP like the ActivityPoller and the InputPoller.<br>
**It has its own Git repository here:** https://github.com/sportarchive/CloudProcessingEngine-Decider

The Decider implements your workflow logic that you defined in a Plan. A Plan is the description of your Workflow steps.

To get a good understanding of what a Decider is, you MUST read the SWF documentation. See links below.

### Decider Plan

The workflow Plan is a YAML file that defines:

   - **Steps:** What are the Steps of your workflow? Are there steps dependent on one another? What is the input/ouput of those steps? The Steps define your workflow execution. The Decider follows those steps when it receives SWF Decision tasks. The first Decision Task is always `WorkflowExecutionStarted`.
   - **Activities:** What are the SWF activities that will execute your steps? You list the Activities names and version (See SWF documentation about activities). Each activity is registered in SWF. Activities are initiated by the Decider and executed by the ActivityPoller.

**Here is a simple YAML plan for running Cloud Transcode (as explained in Getting started):**

{% raw %}
```yaml
---
name: "Transcode"   # WF name in SWF
version: "1.0"      # WF version in SWF
input_spec:
  type: object

# Listing Steps
steps:
  - name: "ValidateAssetStep"
    activity: "ValidateAsset"   # The pass the entire Workflow input payload to this step
    input: |
      {{__input__}}

  - name: "TranscodeAssetStep"
    activity: "TranscodeAsset"
    requires:
      - ["ValidateAssetStep", 'succeeded']
    input: |
      {
        "client": {{__input__.client}},
        "input_asset": {{__input__.input_asset}},
        "input_asset_metadata": {{ValidateAssetStep.metadata}},
        "output_asset": {{__input__.output_asset}}
      }
      
# Listing activities
activities:
  - name: "ValidateAsset"       # Activity name in SWF
    version: "v2"
    input_spec:                 # JSON-Schema input validation
      type: object
    outputs_spec:
      metadata: "$"             # WE return `metadata` in output. It contains the result data from the activity `$`

  - name: "TranscodeAsset"      # Activity name in SWF
    version: "v2"
    input_spec:                 # JSON-Schema input validation
      type: object
    outputs_spec: ~
```
{% endraw %}

The plan syntax allow to create dependencies between steps, set input and output data, perform JSON schemas validation and more.

To know all you can do with the Decider, see its documentation.<br>
**Here:** http://sportarchive.github.io/CloudProcessingEngine-Decider/index.html

#### Input Requirements

Each activities run by the ActivityPoller requires the follow field in the input Payload:

   - `client`: Contains the client SQS queue information that submitted the job. It is used by the ActivityPoller to send SQS to the proper client app.

> See how we include the `client` field in the `TranscodeAssetStep` step input. 

Without the `client` info, your activity won't be able to send SQS message back to your client application. Make sure you always include this field in your data payload.

### Dependencies

You need Python installed to run the Decider.

Before starting it, you need to install the dependencies:

```
$> cd CloudProcessingEngine/decider
$> ./setup.py install
```

or use `pip`

```
$> cd CloudProcessingEngine/decider
$> pip install -r requirements
```

> Make sure your Pythons dependencies are met before continuing.

If you try to run it, you should see the following:

```
$> cd CloudProcessingEngine/decider/bin
$> ./decider.py 
usage: decider.py [-h] -d DOMAIN -t TASK_LIST [--plan_name PLAN_NAME]
                  [--plan_version PLAN_VERSION] --plan PLAN
decider.py: error: argument -d/--domain is required
```

**To start the decider you need to:**

   - Specify the SWF Domain your workflow will run into. You can pre-create it in the SWF console, or the Decider will create it for you.
   - Specify the Decision TaskList the Decider will listen to. It's like a queue where decision events come in from SWF. See the SWF documentation.
   - Specify the filename that contains your YAML plan.

The decider logs are going into: `/var/tmp/log/cpe/decider.log`.

`tail -f` this log file to see the Decider in action.

### More info

The Decider is a project on its own. It is a git sub module of the CPE project.

For more information about the Decider and the YAML Plan syntax it supports, head here: http://sportarchive.github.io/CloudProcessingEngine-Decider/

### SWF documentation

http://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/developerguide/swf-dg-dev-deciders.html

